Copyright for the Code (c) Crossbar.io Technologies GmbH
========================================================

Unless a separate license agreement exists between you and Crossbar.io GmbH (e.g.
have purchased a commercial license), the license terms below apply.

Should you enter into a separate license agreement after having received a copy
of this software, then the terms of such license agreement replace the terms
below at the time at which such license agreement becomes effective.

In case a separate license agreement ends, and such agreement ends without being
replaced by another separate license agreement, the license terms below apply
from the time at which said agreement ends.

LICENSE TERMS

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU Affero General Public License, version 3, as published by the
Free Software Foundation. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the GNU Affero General Public License Version 3 for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public license along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html>.


Coypright for the Documentation (c) Crossbar.io Technologies GmbH
=================================================================

Unless a separate license agreement exists between you and Crossbar.io GmbH (e.g.
have purchased a commercial license), the license terms below apply.

Should you enter into a separate license agreement after having received a copy
of the documention, then the terms of such license agreement replace the terms
below at the time at which such license agreement becomes effective.

In case a separate license agreement ends, and such agreement ends without being
replaced by another separate license agreement, the license terms below apply
from the time at which said agreement ends.

LICENSE TERMS

YOU ARE FREE TO:

- Share - copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
- Adapt - remix, transform, and build upon the material

for any purpose, even commercially.

The licensor cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you follow the license terms.

UNDER THE FOLLOWING TERMS:

- Attribution — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license,
and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but
not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.

- ShareAlike — If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must
distribute your contributions under the same license as the original.

No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological
measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.

NOTICES:

You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the material in the
public domain or where your use is permitted by an applicable exception or
limitation.

No warranties are given. The license may not give you all of the permissions
necessary for your intended use. For example, other rights such as publicity,
privacy, or moral rights may limit how you use the material.

For full license terms, see
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/legalcode
